Agent: Add documentation (#1073)
aragon/aragon-apps: apps/agent/README.md

# Agent

> ## 1. Mechanism

Reviewer: Perhaps "mechanism" will make more sense once we have this section written, but we may find a better wording :).

> 

Reviewer: It may be interesting to include a section on "security features" when describing the app, as the Agent specifically comes with some (`safeExecute()`).

> ## 2. Architecture

Reviewer: I think I would put notes on the architecture later (perhaps in an appendix or etc. section), as I don't think this is as immediately interesting as the entry points and external interfaces.

# Agent

> Agent is an Aragon app that has the ability to perform arbitrary calls to external contracts. It can be thought of as the external interface of a DAO. See our [guide](https://hack.aragon.org/docs/guides-use-agent) for concrete examples on how to use the Agent app.

Reviewer: We may want to also note that the Agent can hold assets, like ETH, ERC20 tokens, and ERC712 NFTs.

Author: Good idea! It's indeed a major feature.

If the sender has the right ACL permissions, it will execute an EVM call to `_target`, sending the specified ETH amount (in Wei) and `_data` as the calldata.

- If the call reverts, it will revert forwarding the error data as the error data of the main call frame.
- If the call succeeds, it will emit the `Execute` event logging the arguments the function was called with.

Since any data can be passed as argument, it is important to note that the function could be a possible attack vector. Consider using `safeExecute` for all calls that don't require the transfer of funds. See the [Security](#14-security) section for further details.

### 1.2. Signature handling

### 1.3. Vault

The Agent app is a superset of the [Vault](../vault/contracts/Vault.sol) contract, which means that it can store or transfer the tokens and Ether of the DAO in which it is installed. Specifically, the following functions are available: 

 - `deposit(address _token, uint256 _value)` 
 - `transfer(address _token, address _to, uint256 _value)` - Protected by the `TRANSFER_ROLE` permission.
 - `balance(address _token)`

> More importantly, this property means that Agent is capable of using the DAO's funds to interact seemlessly with any contracts that require the sender to possess Ether or ERC-20 tokens (e.g. Exchanging tokens on [Uniswap](https://uniswap.io), participating in a [PoolTogether](https://www.pooltogether.com) lottery).

Reviewer: I would also add the case for Voting (e.g. Aragon Network Votes) as well as using apps that require the vault, e.g. Finance.

Author: I added the Finance example to the `Vault` section but added the Aragon Network example to the `Forwarder` section. Also mentioned interaction with other DAOs in `1.1. Arbitrary call execution`.

### 1.4. Security

> Since the Agent app can manage tokens and Ether, it is crucial to always keep security in mind. In order to restrict unauthorized transfers and other abusive behaviors, a variant of the `execute` function is available that will prevent any attempt to transfer tokens included in a "protected tokens" list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Agent app can manage tokens and Ether, it is crucial to always keep security in mind. In order to restrict unauthorized transfers and other abusive behaviors, a variant of the `execute()` function is available, and protected by a separate role, that will prevent any attempt to transfer tokens included in a "protected tokens" list:
```

- `safeExecute(address _target, bytes _data)` - Protected by the `SAFE_EXECUTE_ROLE` permission.

> Before executing the requested call, the function fetches in memory every balances from the protected tokens and compares them with the new balances after the call is executed. If a balance has changed, it reverts the call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function fetches balances for every protected token before and after executing the function, making sure they are equal. If a balance has changed, it reverts the call.
```

The following functions can be used to add or remove a token address to the protected tokens list:

- `addProtectedToken(address _token)` - Protected by the `ADD_PROTECTED_TOKEN_ROLE` permission.
- `removeProtectedToken(address _token)` - Protected by the `REMOVE_PROTECTED_TOKEN_ROLE` permission.

### 1.5. Forwarder

## 2. Entry points

### 2.1. Initialize

>  - **Actor:** External entity, ultimately calling the function through the `Kernel`

Reviewer: > "ultimately calling the function through the `Kernel`"

This is not necessarily true, although it is common the Kernel will be the one calling this.

To be honest, I would consider moving the "initialization" of all apps into a separate function away from the entry points. Perhaps a "construction" or "initialization" section, that also details that you can't use normal constructors due to the proxy pattern.

Author: I agree, I moved the function to the architecture section. We could eventually move it to a separate file when technical documentation is available for other Aragon apps.

 - **Inputs:** None
 - **Pre-flight checks:**
   - Ensure the app has not already been initialized
 - **State transitions:**
   - Initialize the app

### 2.2. Execute
 - **Actor:** External entity
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Target:** Address where the action is being executed
   - **ETH value:** Amount of ETH (in Wei) sent with the action
   - **Data:** Calldata for the action

>  - **Pre-flight checks:**

Reviewer: I don't remember exactly, but there was some discussion around making sure `msg.data > 0` because otherwise you'd just use `.transfer()` to transfer ETH. We may want to highlight that behaviour.

Author: hmm.. I'm not sur I understand what you mean 🤔 Making sure `msg.data > 0` or making sure `_data > 0`?

Reviewer: This was the change: https://github.com/aragon/aragon-apps/pull/625

And the currently deployed contract: https://github.com/aragon/aragon-apps/blob/master/apps/agent/contracts/Agent.sol#L71

I remembered we had a discussion about whether to enforce `execute` to have data, but we removed it in the end :).

   - Ensure the actor has the `EXECUTE_ROLE` permission with the following ACL parameters:
     - Target address
     - ETH value
     - Data signature
 - **State transitions:**
   - Decrease the contract's ETH amount by `ETH value` passed as input
   - May increase or decrease the amount of tokens stored in the contract

### 2.3. Safe execute
 - **Actor:** External entity
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Target:** Address where the action is being executed
   - **Data:** Calldata for the action
 - **Pre-flight checks:**
   - Ensure the actor has the `SAFE_EXECUTE_ROLE` permission with the following ACL parameters:
     - Target address
     - Data signature
 - **State transitions:** None

### 2.4. Add protected token
 - **Actor:** External entity
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Token:** Address of the protected token
 - **Pre-flight checks:**
   - Ensure the actor has the `ADD_PROTECTED_TOKEN_ROLE` permission with the following ACL parameters:
     - Token address

>    - Ensure that the current number of protected tokens is inferior than the maximum allowed (hardcoded as a constant)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Ensure that the current number of protected tokens is less than the maximum allowed (hardcoded as a constant)
```

Maybe we should replace the "the maximum allowed" with the actual hardcoded number.

Author: Oops, classic french to english translation mistake 😆

 - **Outputs:**
   - **Is forwarder**: Whether `Agent` is a `Forwarder`. Always `true`.

#### 3.2.5. Can forward
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Sender:** Address of the account intending to forward an action
   - **EVM script**: Script to forward
 - **Pre-flight checks:** None
 - **Outputs:**
   - **Can forward**: Whether the action can be forwarded or not

#### 3.2.6. Protected tokens length
 - **Inputs:** None
 - **Pre-flight checks:** 
   - Ensure the contract is initialized
 - **Outputs:**
   - **Protected tokens length**: Number of protected tokens

#### 3.2.7. Supports interface
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Interface ID:** Interface bytes to check
 - **Pre-flight checks:** None
 - **Outputs:**
   - **Supports interface**: Whether the contract supports the interface

#### 3.2.8. Is valid signature
 - **Inputs:** 
   - **Hash:** Data signed on the behalf of address(this)
   - **Signature:** Signature byte array associated with the data
 - **Pre-flight checks:** None
 - **Outputs:**
   - **Is valid signature bytes**: The `ERC-1271` magic value if the signature is valid

## 4. Architecture

### 4.1. Inheritance and implementation

- [Vault](../vault/contracts/Vault.sol)

> - [Forwarder](https://github.com/aragon/aragonOS/blob/master/contracts/common/IForwarder.sol)

Reviewer: Not a strong opinion; maybe linking to the hack.aragon.org documentation on forwarders would be better?
